# CirQuick Backend
## Technology Overview
* Language: Typescript
* Interpreter: Node.js
* Server Framework: Express
* Documentation Plugin: TSOA
* Database: MongoDb managed by Mongoose Package   
</br>Basically this is an Express server written in Typescript with a plugin called TSOA. TSOA allows us to autogenerate OpenAPI compatible documentation, auto validate inputs and outputs, and also handles some security.

## Code Organization
### Config
Contains any static content. I.E. Constants or other files
### Controllors
Similiar to Activities in Spring, controllers are where you define API routes and methods. The code that is written in controllers execute workflows. Typically no real logic in it, just data passing.
### Functions
This is where you define all the orchestrators/logic functions you need. All the logic you need to manage the backend resources should go here.
### Models
This is where you define the mongoose models. Mongoose is a schema management system for MongoDb, so you can ensure the data you put into Mongo is well formatted.
### Routes
This folder and routes.js is automatically generated by TSOA. Don't worry about.
### Utils
And utility code or functions can find its way here. If something is not critical to the logic of the server it can be found here. Examples are: API wrappers for 3rd party services, DateTime Utility classes, basic repeatable validation of a field, etc.
### index.ts
This is the main file of the server. It instantiates the server, Mongoose, Swagger, and any middlewares we need.

## How to get started?
1. Install NPM and Node.js
2. Navigate into the same folder as `package.json`
3. Install dependencies using `npm install`
4. Type `npm start` into the terminal. The npm script is setup to generate updated routes, compile it, and then start the server.
5. Server is running. You can make an example POST api call to `/echo` to test the server. (It will be hosted at http://localhost:3000 if running locally)
6. To stop the server just do CTRL+C in the terminal.

